# 英语作文模板笔记


22分钟 

## 大作文

### 第一段

1 As is shown in the chart ( line chart, bar chart 曲线和柱状图), we can see that a noticeable change in _______中文。 A increased / declined over xx years (from xxx to xxx) , and it reached to + 数值 （最高值） in the year of ___.  (B increased / declined over xx years (from xxx to xxx) , and it reached to + 数值 （最高值） in the year of ___.)

2 As is shown in the pie chart 饼状图, we can see different percentages比例 of ___中文。In the chart, A takes up a lion’s share, accounting for xx% of the total. The next (two / three) items are..., which are x% and x% respectively.

3 As is shown in the table 表格, we can see that_______ 中文。纵轴 1，2，3 对应横轴同一组数据分析。

### 第二段

There are several factors responsible for above phenomenon. Initially. Additionally. Eventually.

原因：政府，社会，经济，个人，科技 （任选2-3点）


1.	政府
There is no denying that...不可否认的是。。。
There is no doubt that毫无疑问 this phenomenon has much to do with（与。。密切相关） the policies that our government has adopted（采取，采纳） to speed up China’s urbanization / encourage development of private-enterprises 私营企业 （state-owned enterprise国有企业) / effectively protect environment around us. 






2.	社会
With help of our society, more and more （increasing number of ) relevant相关的（related) facilities and resources are available（可利用，可获得）, such as museums.
With the rapid快速的 development of our society, more have realized that it is very important for them to get social experience, which requires them of more part-time jobs. 
Ask sb to do sth ( require sb of sth )


3.	经济
With the policy of reform and opening up, our living standard has been greatly improved, therefore we can afford sth（随着改革开放，人们生活水平提高，能买的起。。。）
Afford sth / afford cars / afford houses 


With the rapid development of our economy, there is an increasing demand for a high-quality life, so we prefer more spiritual life than material one.
(随着经济发展，人们的高品质生活需求越来越高，相比物质基础来说，更追求精神生活。)
4.	个人
With the steady稳定的(stable) improvement of people’s living standard, the public care more about spiritual life, so more choose to visit museums.（随着生活水平提高，大众开始更多的关注精神需求）
People / visitor / tourist
The growing public appetite胃口，食欲 for culture has greatly boosted the xxx business. (不断增长的大众文化需求极大地促进了xxx 产业的发展)



The rising awareness 意识of environmental-protection in public brings great changes to above phenomenon. ( 大众xxx意识的提高给上述现象带来了巨大变化。)
5.	科技
The rise of local car-business, mainly due to ( because of ) development of technology, is of little surprise, which not only free them from potential risks, but also bring them long-term benefits利益.
(由于科技带来xxx的发展，并不令人惊奇。xxx的发展不仅解决了当前潜在的危机，还给他们带来了长远的利益)。
第三段：
Taking all these factors into account, we can believe this phenomenon is quite normal正常的 and predict that the present situation当前状况 will continue for quite a while in the forthcoming years. 2’ 
小作文
投诉信---complain about 


Dear Sir or Madam,
  I am writing this email to complain that____e-dictionary doesn’t work ___(投诉的事物). (environmental-pollution is serious./ environment is seriously polluted)
  The biggest problem I encountered (I met) was that __it kept silent_____(描述问题 1). The second trouble was that ___the keyboard was no reaction/ broken____(描述问题 2). Therefore, I am writing to ask you to ___take steps to solve them____(*要求对方采取行动). 
  I would be grateful 感激的if you could help me out of these problems.
I am looking forward to your reply!
                                                                                Yours sincerely,
                                                                                         Li Ming
举例：电子词典坏掉
*采取行动：get it repaired 把它修好，give me a full refund 给我全额退款，extend its warranty延长保修
Give my money back 
建议信(投诉建议，感谢建议，回复邀请建议）
Complain
Suggest 
Dear Sir or Madam,
  I am _______(自我介绍). I am writing this email to make some suggestions for you to improve _your oral English______(主题). spoken English 
  As far as I can see/ in my opinion, the following advices would be of help to make things better. Firstly, you would be well-advised to __do more practice on listening_____(建议 1). Secondly, you might as well _read more essays (passage)______(建议 2). At last, I personally suggest that __communicate often with native speakers_____(建议 3).
  If you need any further advice, please do not hesitate to write to me.
Yours truly,
Li Ming
道歉信
Sorry 
I am / feel so sorry to do sth.
Apologize 
Apologize to sb for sth 
I am writing to apologize to you for any inconvenience I have caused.
Convenient 
I feel sorry to take your CD for wrong/ carelessly.
Dear Mr. Smith,
  I have received your (complaining) letter complaining that _______(对方投诉的事件). I feel awfully/so sorry that the problem has been caused by my mistake.
  As you may know, _I mistakely/ carelessly delivered/ sent the broken one to you______(描述原因). As a result, __it brought great trouble to you_____(给对方造成的困扰). I realize the inconvenience I have caused to you. I have already __sent a new one back to you soon_____(采取补救措施). 
Hopefully, you would be able to accept my apology.
                                                                                                      Yours sincerely,
                                                                                                               Li Ming
邀请信




Invite / invitation 
Invite sb to do sth 
Invite you to give us a lecture about Chinese traditional culture
About / on 
主题+ on ( topic on)
Talk about sth 

Speech / lecture (学术报告）/ presentation （发表，展示）
Professor Smith 
Join 加入 / take part in 学生





Dear Prof. Smith,
  I am writing this letter to invite you to join __English speech_contest____(参加活动的名称) / which is planned to be held in___No.1 Building  on this weekend____(举办地点和时间).
In this activity, there are 50 students in total. They will talk about key words on culture. 

  In this activity, we will _call for 50 students to take part in it on a topic of culture______(*细节 1). Also, __you are sincerely invited to be our respected judge___裁判，评委__(细节 2). Perhaps you could give us a call or write to us to let us know what time you expect to arrive. 

(If you have any further question, please don’t hesitate to let us know. )

I am looking forward to seeing you then.
Yours sincerely,
Li Ming
*细节：invite you to introduce Chinese culture 请你来介绍中国文化，have some volunteers to introduce the traditional culture of tea 介绍中国传统的茶文化
询问信 (inquire)
Ask for help / information
Dear Sir or Madam/ Bob,
   My name is Li Ming – _your roomate ______（*身份介绍）. I am writing this email to inquire about _your_living habits_____(询问内容).
  To be honest, __living habits / it_____(询问内容) has aroused my great interest, and I want to get more details. Firstly,     I would like to know __your_daily schedule____(细节 1). Secondly, I wonder if there are _other special tips I need to know_/ other interests of your ..._____(细节 2).
  I would be grateful for your kind help. I am looking forward to your early reply.
                                                                                   Yours sincerely,
                                                                                         Li Ming
感谢信(帮助---回忆--过去时态）
Thanks for your help！
I appreciate your help. 
Your help will be highly appreciated.
I am so grateful that you helped me a lot. 
Dear Prof. Smith,
   I am writing  this  email  to  express  my  heartfelt (sincere) gratitude  to  your help  when  I  was __doing a research_/ visiting the U.S.____(概括当时在做某事 doing…).
  At that time, _I got in trouble/ had problems__about (with) language____(具体描述当时的困境). It was your assistance (help) that allowed me to __overcome difficulties 克服困难_____(正是你的帮助，让我……do sth). I was impressed by your _______ and _______(*描述两个对方的优点).
  Thank you from the bottom of my heart （inner heart)  for your kind help.
Yours sincerely,
Li Ming
*对方的优点：abundant knowledge 丰富的知识，patience 耐心，considerate service 周到的服务，constructive suggestions 有建设性的意见
I really appreciate it if you take my suggestions into consideration. 
求职信（申请信）apply 
Application letter / apply for this position
原因---有点---advantage / qualification (资质）
I am qualified for...
= I am good at...
专业--- i major in / i am majored in , 毕业学校
工作经验，实习经验
个人性格特点 well-communicated ( social)
Dear Sir or Madam,
  I am writing this email/ letter to apply for the position of _assistant of____(职位或其他工作岗位，例如 the volunteer of Beijing 2008 Olympic Games). 
  I believe my qualifications can meet your requirements. Firstly, __i major in xxx___(介绍自己的专业). Secondly, _I have worked for xxx years as xxx (职位） in xxx（某公司） corporation_，with rich experience in (职位）__( 介绍先前的工作经验或实习经历 ). Finally, I am good at teamwork and competent for coordinating interpersonal relationships.
I am qualified for / I am competent for 有能力，能胜任某职位
  I would be grateful if you could schedule an interview for me ( if you could consider my application). I am looking forward to your early reply.
I am looking forward to reply at your earliest convenience. 
                                                                                     Yours sincerely,
                                                                                            Li Ming
申请信：职位+ 学位 （further education)
I am writing to apply for 
postgraduate (master )
degree in your university.
辞职信+道歉
Quit / resign (resignation)
Dear Manager/ boss,
Inform sb of sth 
 I am writing this letter to inform you that I will resign from my current position.
  I am writing this email to inform you of my decision to resign from my current position as a_______(职位名称). I am grateful for the help you and other colleagues gave to me.
  The job, I think, is not suitable for me. Primarily, _______(辞职原因 1). Besides, _______(辞职原因2)
  I apologize for any trouble（inconvenience) caused by my resignation. Thanks for your approval of my application.
                                                                               Yours sincerely,
                                                                                      Li Ming
原因1：The salary can hardly support my living and whole family.
原因2：Our office is too far away from my house, which requires me of 4 hours each day to commute.
原因3：What I am responsible for is beyond (far away from fulfilling满足，实现) my expectation for this job. 

推荐信(recommend sth/ sb to sb) 
Recommendation 推荐

Dear Sir or Madam,
  I am writing this email to recommend _______(被推荐人) to you for your consideration of recruiting 招聘（employ , hire )him/her as a/an _______(职位或其他身份，例如 IT manager, volunteer 等).
  The first reason why I recommend him/her is that he/she shows great talents in __coding_____(推荐理由 1: 在某方面很有天赋). In addition, he/she has a very pleasant personality (推荐理由 2，或给出其他推荐理由).
  I am sure working with him/her can be happy and easy, and his/her future work will prove worthy of your confidence.
Yours sincerely,
                                                                                               Li Ming

如果是推荐书，电影，旅游胜地，就按照：famous places 
Places of interests / scenic spots 
1.	书名 / 作者，电影名 / 导演，地名 / 城市 来列举基础信息。
I am writing to recommend a famous book, named xxx and written by xxx, to you. 
2.	书的内容，电影的故事，旅游胜地的特色
The book/ movie tells(narrates 叙述） a story of... 
This place is characterized by food culture ( dim sum ) (以。。为特色）
3.	个人感受

混合型书信：祝贺信+请求信
I am sorry to hear that
I am glad to learn that
Dear Allen,
   It was delightful to learn that ___you have succeeded in winning this contest____(对方的成就). I am writing this letter to express my congratulations for your success! Your hard work paid off. (you deserve it!) 
  As you may know, __I have difficulty in translation learning__(自己的困境). Therefore, I hope you could help me out. 
Firstly, I would like to know __how to prepare for translation-contest_____(细节 1). Secondly, I wonder if there are __special tips i need to know_____(细节 2).
  Congratulations again for your success. I am looking forward to your early reply. Thanks! 
                                                                                                       Yours sincerely,
                                                                                                                  Li Ming
回信（感谢+建议）

Suppose you won a translation contest and your friend Jack wrote an email to congratulate you, and ask advice on translation.
Write him a reply to
1）thank him;
2）give your advice.
Dear Jack,
  I have received and read your email (letter ) carefully. I am writing to express my heartfelt gratitude to your congratulations when I won the translation contest.
  In reply to your request for advice on translation, the following advice would be of help to make things better ( there are several suggestions as follows) . Firstly, you would be well-advised to read more Chinese-English magazines to be more sensitive to the difference between the two languages. Secondly, you might as well do more practice, because it will help you identify (find) both weaknesses and strengths for further improvement in translation.
  Thanks again for your congratulations. If you need any further advice, please do not hesitate to write to me.
                                                                                Yours,
                                                                                Li Ming
写回信的重点句型：
1.	I have received and read your email carefully. 我已经收到并详细阅读了你的来信。
2.	In reply to your request for advice/invitation/information 为了回应你对建议/邀请/信息的需求……
十二、 通知 (举办活动 / 招聘志愿者）
Notice
In order to 为了enrich high school students’ life in summer holiday, our university is to host a summer camp （on the first weekend of July in our campus）. 
Charity sale 慈善义卖
International conference 

In this activity, they will be offered a series of activities, such as visiting the campus and holding parties, which will last for two weeks （details 细节信息）. To ensure the success of activities, 10 volunteers, who are easygoing and warm-hearted, are needed to offer services. 
Those who are interested in taking part in it may sign up with us before Thursday this week. Hope you to join us!
                                                                 The Students’ Union 
                                                                                                
十三、 备忘录(会议安排，行程准备）
Memo
Date: Aug. 8, 2018
To: Wang Jie, Manager of Marketing Department
From: Li Ming
Subject: Arrangements for the Shanghai Conference 
　On your desk you will find two envelopes. Enclosed in the small one is your air ticket for CA777 from Beijing to Shanghai. I have made reservation for you at the Hongqiao Grand Hotel. The address and telephone number of the Hotel are also inside the small envelope. 
In the other one are all the documents you will need. They are photocopies of the Year Report for the past five years, and files about new products of this year and other information. 
If you need further information, please contact me as soon as possible. 
Have a nice trip!





