# 英语小作文模板笔记

## 投诉信 complain about

Dear Sir or Madam,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I am writing this email to complain that XXX (投诉的事物). (environmental-pollution is serious./ environment is seriously polluted)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The biggest problem I encountered (I met) was that XXX (描述问题 1). The second trouble was that XXX (描述问题 2). Therefore, I am writing to ask you to XXX (要求对方采取行动).

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I would be grateful (感激的) if you could help me out of these problems.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I am looking forward to your reply!

<p align=right>Your sincerely,</p>
<p align=right>Li Ming</p>

eg. 举例：电子词典坏掉 采取行动：get it repaired 把它修好，give me a full refund 给我全额退款，extend its warranty 延长保修

## 建议信 (投诉建议，感谢建议，回复邀请建议）

Dear Sir or Madam,
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I am XXX (自我介绍). I am writing this email to make some suggestions for you to improve XXX (主题).

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As far as I can see / in my opinion, the following advices would be of help to make things better. Firstly, you would be well-advised to XXX (建议 1). Secondly, you might as well XXX (建议 2). At last, I personally suggest that XXX (建议 3).
  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If you need any further advice, please do not hesitate to write to me.

<p align=right>Yours truly,</p>
<p align=right>Li Ming</p>

## 道歉信

Dear Mr. Smith,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I have received your complaining letter. / I have received your letter complaining that XXX (对方投诉的事件). I feel awfully / so sorry that the problem has been caused by my mistake.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As you may know, XXX (描述原因). As a result, XXX (给对方造成的困扰). I realize the inconvenience I have caused to you. I have already XXX (采取补救措施).

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Hopefully, you would be able to accept my apology.

<p align=right>Your sincerely,</p>
<p align=right>Li Ming</p>

**sorry**：I am / feel so sorry to do sth

**apologize**: apologize to sb for sth

I am writing to apologize to you for any inconvenience I have caused.

I feel sorry to take your CD for wrong / carelessly.

## 邀请信

Dear Prof. Smith / Professor Smith,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I am writing this letter to invite you to join XXX (参加活动的名称) which is planned to be held in XXX (举办地点和时间).

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In this activity, we will  XXX (call for 50 students to take part in it on a topic of culture 细节 1). Also,  XXX (you are sincerely invited to be our respected judge 细节 2). Perhaps you could give us a call or write to us to let us know what time you expect to arrive. / In this activity, there are 50 students in total. They will talk about key words on culture.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If you have any further question, please don’t hesitate to let us know. / I am looking forward to seeing you then.

<p align=right>Your sincerely,</p>
<p align=right>Li Ming</p>

invite sb to do sth

eg. invite you to give us a speech / lecture (学术报告）/ presentation （发表，展示） about Chinese traditional culture

**细节**：invite you to introduce Chinese culture 请你来介绍中国文化，have some volunteers to introduce the traditional culture of tea 介绍中国传统的茶文化

## 询问信 (inquire)

Dear Sir or Madam / Bob,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;My name is Li Ming  XXX（*身份介绍）. I am writing this email to inquire about XXX (询问内容).

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To be honest, XXX (询问内容) has aroused my great interest, and I want to get more details. Firstly, I would like to know XXX (细节 1). Secondly, I wonder if there are XXX (other special tips I need to know... / other interests of your... 细节 2).

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I would be grateful for your kind help. I am looking forward to your early reply.

<p align=right>Your sincerely,</p>
<p align=right>Li Ming</p>

## 感谢信 (帮助---回忆--过去时态）

Dear Prof. Smith,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I am writing  this  email  to  express  my  heartfelt / sincere (真诚的) gratitude  to  your help  when  I  was XXX (概括当时在做某事 doing...).

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;At that time, I got in trouble / had problems about /with XXX (具体描述当时的困境). It was your assistance / help (帮助) that allowed me to overcome difficulties（克服困难）. I was impressed by your XXX and XXX (描述两个对方的优点).

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Thank you from the bottom of my heart for your kind help.

<p align=right>Your sincerely,</p>
<p align=right>Li Ming</p>

Thanks for your help！

I appreciate your help.

Your help will be highly appreciated.

I am so grateful that you helped me a lot.

**对方的优点**：**abundant knowledge** 丰富的知识，patience 耐心，considerate service 周到的服务，**constructive suggestions** 有建设性的意见

I really appreciate it if you take my suggestions into consideration.

## 求职信（申请信）apply

Dear Sir or Madam,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I am writing this email / letter to apply for the position of XXX (职位或其他工作岗位，例如 the volunteer of Beijing 2008 Olympic Games).

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I believe my qualifications can meet your requirements. Firstly, i major in xxx (介绍自己的专业). Secondly, I have worked for xxx years as xxx (职位） in xxx（某公司） corporation，with rich experience in (职位）( 介绍先前的工作经验或实习经历 ). Finally, I am good at teamwork and competent for coordinating interpersonal relationships.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I would be grateful if you could schedule an interview for me / if you could consider my application. I am looking forward to your early reply. / I am looking forward to reply at your earliest convenience.

<p align=right>Your sincerely,</p>
<p align=right>Li Ming</p>

application letter / apply for this position

advantage / qualification (资质）

I am qualified for / I am competent for 有能力，能胜任某职位

i major in / i am majored in 我的专业是

## 辞职信 + 道歉

Dear Manager / boss,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I am writing this letter to inform you that I will resign from my current position. / I am writing this email to inform you of my decision to resign from my current position as a XXX (职位名称). I am grateful for the help you and other colleagues（同事） gave to me.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The job, I think, is not suitable for me. Primarily, XXX (辞职原因 1). Besides,XXX (辞职原因2)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I apologize for any trouble（inconvenience) caused by my resignation. Thanks for your approval (通过) of my application.

<p align=right>Your sincerely,</p>
<p align=right>Li Ming</p>

**原因1**：The salary can hardly support my living and whole family.

**原因2**：Our office is too far away from my house, which requires me of 4 hours each day to commute.

**原因3**：What I am responsible for is beyond (far away from fulfilling 满足，实现) my expectation for this job.

## 推荐信 (recommend sth/ sb to sb)

Dear Sir or Madam,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;**I am writing this email / letter to recommend XXX (被推荐人) to you for your consideration** of recruiting / employ / hire (招聘) him / her as a / an XXX (职位或其他身份，例如 IT manager, volunteer 等).

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;The first reason why I recommend him / her is that he / she shows great talents in XXX ( coding 推荐理由 1: 在某方面很有天赋). In addition, he / she has a very pleasant personality 有人格魅力 (推荐理由 2，或给出其他推荐理由).

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I am sure working with him/her can be happy and easy, and his / her future work will prove worthy of your confidence.

<p align=right>Your sincerely,</p>
<p align=right>Li Ming</p>

如果是推荐书，电影，旅游胜地（places of interests / scenic spots），就按照：

1 书名 / 作者，电影名 / 导演，地名 / 城市 来列举基础信息。
I am writing to recommend a famous book, named xxx and written by xxx, to you.

2 书的内容，电影的故事，旅游胜地的特色
The book / movie tells / narrates (叙述） a story of...
This place **is characterized by** food culture ( dim sum 早茶 ) (以...为特色）

3 个人感受

## 混合型书信 祝贺信+请求信

Dear Allen,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;It was delightful to learn that XXX (you have succeeded in winning this contest 对方的成就). I am writing this letter to express my congratulations for your success! Your hard work paid off.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;As you may know,XXX (I have difficulty in translation learning 自己的困境). Therefore, I hope you could help me out. Firstly, I would like to know XXX (how to prepare for translation-contest 细节 1). Secondly, I wonder if there are special tips i need to know XXX (细节 2).

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Congratulations again for your success. I am looking forward to your early reply. Thanks!

<p align=right>Your sincerely,</p>
<p align=right>Li Ming</p>

## 回信（感谢+建议）

Suppose you won a translation contest and your friend Jack wrote an email to congratulate you, and ask advice on translation.
Write him a reply to
1）thank him;
2）give your advice.

Dear Jack,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I have received and read your email / letter carefully. I am writing to express my heartfelt gratitude to your congratulations when I won the translation contest.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In reply to your request for advice on translation, the following advice would be of help to make things better / there are several suggestions as follows. Firstly, you would be well-advised to read more Chinese-English magazines to be more sensitive to the difference between the two languages. Secondly, you might as well do more practice, because it will help you identify / find（发现）both weaknesses and strengths for further improvement in translation.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Thanks again for your congratulations. If you need any further advice, please do not hesitate to write to me.

<p align=right>Your sincerely,</p>
<p align=right>Li Ming</p>

**写回信的重点句型**：

1 I have received and read your email carefully. 我已经收到并详细阅读了你的来信。

2 In reply to your request for advice/invitation/information 为了回应你对建议/邀请/信息的需求...

## 通知 (举办活动 / 招聘志愿者）

<p align=center>Notice<p>

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In order to (为了) enrich high school students’ life in summer holiday, our university is to host a summer camp （on the first weekend of July in our campus）.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In this activity, they will be offered a series of activities, such as visiting the campus and holding parties, which will last for two weeks （details 细节信息）. To ensure the success of activities, 10 volunteers, who are easygoing and warm-hearted, are needed to offer services.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Those who are interested in taking part in it may sign up with (报名) us before Thursday this week. Hope you to join us!

<p align=right>The Students’ Union</p>

## 备忘录 (会议安排，行程准备）

<p align=center>Memo<p>

Date: Aug. 8, 2018

To: Wang Jie, Manager of Marketing Department

From: Li Ming

Subject: Arrangements for the Shanghai Conference

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On your desk you will find two envelopes. Enclosed in the small one is your air ticket for CA777 from Beijing to Shanghai. I have made reservation for you at the Hongqiao Grand Hotel. The address and telephone number of the Hotel are also inside the small envelope.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;In the other one are all the documents you will need. They are photocopies of the Year Report for the past five years, and files about new products of this year and other information.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If you need further information, please contact me as soon as possible.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Have a nice trip!
